# Settings
## Language
Select your prefered langauge. This effects both, the web UI and the display-messages of the box. It you select "Browser detect" you display-language will be English.

## Backup
### Default backup mode
Select the default backup-mode. This will be automatically started after boot.

### Directories to be backuped from smartphones and cameras
Connecting cameras via USB (maybe you have to switch on your camera) will most probably be uncomplicated and run out of the box.<br>
Smartphones can cause a bit more of trouble.<br>
<br>
#### How to enable PTP (Picture Transfer Protocol) or MTP (Media Transfer Protocol) on android-devices
Android-devices need some Developer options to be set. At first, activate the Developer options menu:<br>
<ol>
	<li>Navigate to <b>Settings</b> - <b>About phone</b> - <b>Software information</b></li>
	<li>Tap the <b>Build number</b> seven times to enable <b>Settings</b> - <b>Developer options</b></li>
</ol>
Now your smartphones <b>Settings</b> menu got a new item: <b>Developer options</b>. Here we have to ensure the following settings:
<ol>
	<li>Navigate to <b>Settings</b> - <b>Developer options</b></li>
	<li>Enable <b>Stay awake (Screen will never sleep while charging)</b>, else the transfer could break and you'll find empty files later!</li>
	<li>Set <b>Default USB configuration</b> to <b>PTP: Transferring images</b> or <b>MTP: Transferring files / Android Auto</b>.</li>
</ol>
Maybe you also need to
<ul>
	<li>activate <b>USB-debugging</b></li>
</ul>

In some cases, after you connected your phone, it might still ask you to allow to use the connection. Some phones also will give a notification and ask how to use USB. Please select &quot;Transfer images&quot;.
<br>
### Setup lbb for your smartphone
In case of smartphones in particular, usualy there are many folders - containing mostly irrelevant images.
Scanning a lot of folders can take a huge amount of time, depending on your device maybe half an hour or more! That's why there is a much faster way: Have a look further down at &quot;Use absoulte paths&quot;.<br>
Often, captured photos are stored in a folder named &quot;DCIM&quot;. <br>
The entries here have the form: <br>
&quot;CAMERA:PATH&quot; <br>
The name of a connected camera can be found on the page &quot;System&quot; at &quot;Camera/Smartphone&quot;. This designation must be used correctly and without leading or trailing spaces. In the example below, this is &quot;MyCamera&quot;.<br>
If an instruction is to apply to all cameras, &quot;&ast;&quot; (without further additions) can be used as a joker for all devices. <br>
<br>
#### Find paths by pattern (not recommended for regular use, can take several minutes!)
The path does not have to be specified in full. It is enough to use a significant part of it. <br>
Instead of <br>
&quot;CAMERA:/storage00010001/DCIM&quot; it's enough, just <br>
&quot;DCIM&quot; <br>
to be specified. <br>
<br>
Further entries are separated from each other by new line or &quot;;&quot;.<br>
<br>
Example 1: <br>
For all cameras, all folders (and their sub-folders) the name contains &quot;DCIM&quot;, should be backed up: <br>
&quot;&ast;:DCIM&quot; <br>
<br>
Example 2: <br>
In addition, for &quot;MyCamera&quot; all folders (and their subfolders) the name contains &quot;IMAGES&quot; , should be backed up: <br>
&quot;&ast;:DCIM;MyCamera:IMAGES&quot; <br>
<br>
Example 3: <br>
All folders (and their subfolders) should be backed up for all cameras: <br>
&quot;&quot; (Field remains empty.)<br>
<br>
#### Use absoulte paths (faster)
Instead of searching for a pattern, absolute paths can also be specified. These must always start with &quot;!/&quot;:<br>
&quot;MyCamera:!/store_00020002/DCIM&quot; <br>
As soon as an absolute folder applies to a device, there is no longer a search for a pattern for it. This might save a lot of time.<br>
<br>
To setup absolute-path-backup for your device, follow this steps:
##### The easy but slow way
<ol>
	<li>Boot your Little Backup Box.</li>
	<li>Temporarily change this &quot;Settings&quot;:</li>
	<li>
		<ol>
			<li>Into the BACKUP-Section: Uncheck &quot;Power down after backup&quot;.</li>
			<li>Into the BEHAVIOR-Section: Set &quot;Power down after idle-time&quot; to &quot;never&quot;</li>
		</ol>
	</li>
	<li>Run a camera-backup of your device. Depending on your device and its number of folders, this can take half an hour and more!</li>
	<li>Have a look at your LOG MONITOR and wait for &quot;Backup complete. Do not unplug!&quot;</li>
	<li>Click on &quot;Download&quot; to download the logfile.</li>
	<li>Open the Logfile.</li>
	<li>Search for  &quot;For use as pattern in Setting&quot; (or just search for &quot;***&quot;), e.g.<br>
		<i>12:42:14 *** - /store_00010001/DCIM - For use as pattern in Settings ('Directories to be backed up on smartphones and cameras'): 'SM-A202F:!/store_00010001/DCIM'&quot;</i>
	</li>
	<li>Here you get your entry for your camera and folder: In our example &quot;SM-A202F:!/store_00010001/DCIM&quot;</li>
	<li>In your logfile, search for every folder you want to backup on this device. Add all this patterns to Settings - BACKUP - &quot;Directories to be backed up on smartphones and cameras&quot;, always seperated by &quot;;&quot;</li>
	<li>Restore your settings from above</li>
	<li>Test it!</li>
</ol>

When you use the "Find paths by pattern" of this, in the logging you will find the patterns for your camera and folders. Click on "Download" below the Log Monitor and search for &quot;For use as pattern in Settings&quot;. You can copy the suggested definitions and paste them into the Settings-field.

##### The quick way
<ol>
	<li>Connect your camera/smartphone</li>
	<li>Navigate to &quot;System&quot;-tab.</li>
	<li>Below &quot;Camera / smartphone&quot; you will find the camera-identifier (e.g. &quot;SM-A202F&quot;)</li>
	<li>Below &quot;Storage paths&quot; you find a list of the storage devices.</li>
</ol>
The list of the storage devices may contain something like this: &quot;/store_00010001&quot; and &quot;/store_00020001&quot;.
This are the storage-devices of your camera/smartphone. In this example of a smartphone &quot;/store_00010001&quot; represents the internal storage while &quot;/store_00020001&quot; points to the sd-card. If you would backup the folders &quot;/DCIM&quot; on both storage devices, you would combine this to<br>
<ol>
	<li>&quot;SM-A202F:!/store_00010001/DCIM&quot;</li>
	<li>&quot;SM-A202F:!/store_00020001/DCIM&quot;</li>
</ol>
Finally your setup-entry would be &quot;SM-A202F:!/store_00010001/DCIM;SM-A202F:!/store_00020001/DCIM&quot; or better &quot;*:DCIM;SM-A202F:!/store_00010001/DCIM;SM-A202F:!/store_00020001/DCIM&quot;
