# Cloud services
## Configure for sync to rsync-server
If you want to sync to your own rsync-server, please setup your server following the instruction in <a href="https://github.com/outdoorbits/little-backup-box/blob/main/readme_rsync.md">readme_rsync.md</a> into the respository. After that the configuration of lbb should be self explaining.

## Configure for sync to (commercial) cloud services
rclone does all the magic. Because in a raspbian lite installation you cannot open a local browser, most setups are a little bit more complicated. The easiest way might be the following:
1. install rclone on your computer (not lbb!)
2. start "rclone config --config=./rclone.conf" from a terminal
3. select "New remote"
4. name it
5. select one service out of the large list
6. follow the instructions
7. if asked "Use auto config?" select Yes
8. a browser opens, you have to log in and authorize the service
9. finish the setup
10. open your new configured config file ./rclone.conf using a code-editor
11. copy the section(s) you want to use in lbb
12. start lbb
13. at lbb open "Files" and start the editor for rclone.conf into the root folder
14. insert your copied section here
15. YOU ARE DONE!
16. maybe it's a very good idea to download lbb's settings, containing all the cloud-configs too
17. SERVICES MAY ACCEPT YOUR CONFIGURATION DATA A LIMITED TIME ONLY! NEVER RELY ON THEM ONLY!

## Cloud storage and many local files
The more files there are on a local storage, the longer it takes until a backup to the cloud can begin the actual data transfer. First of all, all local files must be compared with those in the cloud. Depending on the data connection, several minutes can be lost here for just a few thousand files. The following strategies should therefore be considered:

### 1. The files are no longer needed locally after the cloud backup:

This is the simplest option. Run the backup to the cloud as **move** instead of copy. You can set this either in the web UI when the backup is started manually or in **Settings**. Here you can even choose between copy and move for the two configurable default backups. After successful transfer to the cloud, files are then deleted locally.

### 2. The files should be kept locally:
An intermediate step is required here.

a) First run a backup on a first storage medium "Target1"\
b) Back up "Target1" (copy) to storage medium "Target2"\
c) Now you can back up "Target1" to the cloud using **move**.

"Target2" contains all the files that have ever been backed up.
