# Operation

## General considerations
Regardless of the source from which a backup is performed, the following statements apply:

* Files are never deleted on the target disk during backup.
* If the source is emptied after a backup and then filled with new recordings, only the new recordings will be added to the target device during the backup - no deletions.
* **However, if files were created on the source device in the same subfolder and with the same name as files previously backed up on the target, the old files on the target will be overwritten.**
* Files on the source device that have already been backed up to the target device must be compared again with each backup. This may take a lot of time, especially when backing up to cloud storage. Therefore, files that already have been backed up should be deleted on the source device.

## Device types

### USB devices
When backing up from or to a USB storage device, please note the following:

* When backing up **from and to a USB storage device**, make sure none or only the target device is connected before starting the backup. Otherwise source and target device would be assigned more or less randomly!
* USB devices are automatically mounted during backup.
* Please note that a USB storage devices will be unmounted when a backup is finished.
* After a completed backup, USB storage devices can be safely removed.
* If you want to access a USB storage device via file manager or View outside of a running backup, the drive must be mounted manually. This function is available under Tools.
* If a USB storage device has been manually mounted, it must be umounted before removing. Use Tools for this as well.

Each USB storage device receives a device identifier when mounted for the first time. This is stored in the form of a file name in its root directory:

* 'lbb_20240306212708-39180.lbbid' (new extension) or
* 'lbb_20240306212708-39180.id' (old extension)

In both examples the identifier would be 'lbb_20240306212708-39180'. This is used in the log monitor or in emails. You can rename this file to have meaningful identifiers. In this case, use the file extension 'lbbid', e.g.:

* '1TB SSD black.lbbid'

**Be careful to give each disk a unique identifier.** Otherwise, backups from different sources could be made to the same folder at target and lead to data loss or at least clutter.

**It's important to understand the following:**
* When a backup is started with USB storage as target: The logic automatically selects the USB storage device that was connected earliest of all connected USB storage devices as the target.
* If USB (or "any USB") is selected as source, all subsequently connected USB drives (including cameras, smartphones, etc. if "any USB" is selected) will be used as sources and backed up one after the other.
+ The only exception is if other settings have been set under modifications (web UI). However, these settings are not permanently saved and may need to be set again before each backup. This procedure should be the regular use case.
* Which USB drive was mounted using tools and in which role does not affect the above rule. Each backup first cleans up all mounts and then proceeds according to the above rules.

### Camera as source
Lots of cameras and smartphones are [compatible to gphoto2](http://www.gphoto.org/proj/libgphoto2/support.php) and hence they can be backuped convenient by Little Backup Box. This can save the need of a card reader.  
**On most smartphones, PTP (or MTP) mode must be activated first.** Please follow the instructions at the [wiki - How to enable PTP (Picture Transfer Protocol) or MTP (Media Transfer Protocol) on android-devices](04.-Setup.md).
For optimal configuration of Little Backup Box please also check the [wiki](04.-Setup.md): Directories to be backuped from smartphones or cameras.
  
On backup from camera, Little Backup Box can not compare source and target before the backup. If there is a number of files on the camera, it will download all of them. If some or all of them have already been at the target before, this won't change the file count at the target. So the progress information will not be correct.  
Example: There are 78 images on your camera, but 71 of them have been backuped before. Progress information will start at "0 of 78". Because only seven files are new, progress will not start until the first 71 files are re-downloaded. After that files 72 to 78 are downloaded and the backup finishes at "7 of 78".<br><br>
<u><b>Check carefully your backups und the behavior of your camera-device! E.g. some Android-devices do not transfer videos or transfer empty files!</b></u>

### LBB's FTP Server as source
Some cameras are able to transfer files via FTP. Here, LBB can be a convenient interface to various backup targets. If a backup is started with this source, LBB creates a folder LBB-FTP on the target. The FTP server then uses this directory as the root directory for the lbb user and transfers the files there.

### rsync-server as target
To use an own rsync-server as target, you need rsync version 3.2.3 or better on your server. For server-setup have a look at [readme_rsync.md](https://github.com/outdoorbits/little-backup-box/blob/main/readme_rsync.md)

### cloud-services as target
Numerous cloud storage services can be used via [rclone](https://rclone.org/). All configured cloud storages are offered as possible backup destinations on the "Main" page.  
To configure cloud storage, go to "Settings" and there to "Configure Cloud-services" and follow the link. The rclone-gui will open in a new window.  
The username for the gui is "lbb". If a global password has been set, it is also valid here.  
If an error message appears (Something else but "Status: rClone Backend is connected and working as expected"): Please log out of the gui and log in again.  
New services can be configured under "Configs". This can be done easily with webdav, for example.  
However, many of these services use oauth and cannot be configured via the gui. In this case you have to

* install rclone on a PC or smartphone and set up the connection there
* open the generated config file and copy the required section to the clipboard
* Open the Little-Backup-Box web interface, go to "Files"
* find the rclone.conf file (into the base-folder)
* click on it and then select "Edit"
* insert the new section there

## Generally excluded files from backup
There are two groups of files excluded from backup: 

* "*.id": This is recognised as the storage id-marker of Little Backup Box.  
* Files in folders of the name "tims" (and this folders): They are recognised as thumbnail-folders of View and not backed up to save storage and time.
