# Operation - View image viewer

## Introduction
The image viewer View is now fully integrated. Images can be selected and sorted according to various criteria. In addition, View has a rating function and the option of (permanently!) deleting images.

## Importing images
In order to be able to select and sort images, they must first be read into the database. There are two ways to do this:
* In Settings &gt; Backup &gt; Thumbnails enable &quot;Create thumbnails for View after backup? (Local storages only)&quot;: New images are automatically imported during the backup.
* in Backup &gt; View-Database you will find options to create thumbnails and read them into the database or to clean up the database.

## Selecting images
**First of all, of course, the desired medium must be integrated. If necessary, use &quot;Tools&quot; for this.**<br>
Open the Filters section in View. Only options for which there are also images are displayed here. Select the desired selection.

## EXIF data
Clicking on an image takes you to a slightly larger preview of the image. In addition, all available EXIF data is displayed under the image.

## Rating images
Images can be rated in View. To do this, mark the desired number of stars below the picture. The default for new images is two stars. Please save the reviews before leaving the site.<br>
In the settings you can make the following presettings in the &quot;Image viewer View&quot; section:
* Write ratings immediately into the original files<br>
Ratings are immediately entered into the original files and can be used in further processing. Alternatively, these can also be transferred later from the database to the files (backup page).
* Automatically adjust EXIF data of media files on import<br>
New media without their own rating receive the standard rating. If possible, this is written to the original file.<br>
<br>
If you have not written ratings directly into the media-files but have only stored them in the database, you can subsequently transfer them to the original files:<br>
By<br>
Backup &gt; View Database &gt; Write EXIF data (ratings) into the original files<br>
all ratings that have not yet been transferred are written to the original files.

## Deleting images
Images rated with only one star are outlined in red. Now use &quot;Filter&quot; to select the images with only one star. In this view you will now get the option &quot;delete&quot;.<br>
**Danger! Images are permanently deleted and removed from the database by clicking on &quot;delete images&quot; without further confirmation.**

## Troubleshooting
If there are problems with the database, it can simply be deleted and recreated. To do this, the affected memory may first have to be connected and mounted, use &quot;Tools&quot; for this. In &quot;Files&quot; you can now navigate to the desired location and delete the &quot;images.db&quot; file.<br>
In &quot;Backup&quot; &gt; &quot;View-Database&quot; click &quot;Synchronize and clean database&quot;.
