# Thoughts for travelling

## Basics
Are you planning a trip and want to back up your photos, diary entries or whatever with Little Backup Box? Then you will want to prepare well so that you can safely rely on this equipment.

## Settings
 - You could set a standard-backup-method if this is useful for you. (Settings -Backup)
 - Check 'Power down after backup' if Little Backup Box should shut down after backup. This saves energy but have a look at the backup-process or get the result by mail.
 - It is advisable to set a sensible value for 'Power down after idle-time' under Settings - Behavior. As soon as web access and backup are no longer active, the time after which the system is switched off begins to run. In case the web interface is not accessible, this could shut down your system regularly.

## Training
 - Use Little Backup Box before the trip as you want to use it during the trip.
 - Is the power bank strong enough?
 - Does the card reader also work on power-supply by your power bank?
 - Do you know the backup modes?
 - Do you know the tools of the web interface to repair damages on your storage if necessary?
 - Can you access the box using your smartphone without your WiFi?
 - Did you test all your components in a simulated trip situation somewhere - but not at home?

## Equipment
Consider duplicating or even multiplying a few lightweight but essential pieces of gear.
 - What if the operating system is damaged, e.g. due to a power failure? A second SD card with installed and configured Little Backup Box saves you.
 - A single defective cable can undermine the entire function. A spare cable weighs almost nothing and takes up negligibly little space.
 - It's always a good idea to export the settings in order to be able to import them into a new installation if necessary.
 - In order to be able to connect the LBB to WiFis with a portal side, a second WiFi adapter is required. More at https://github.com/outdoorbits/little-backup-box/wiki/05b.-Comitup

## Never ever
 - Never simply unplug the power supply as long as the Raspberry Pi has not shut down. This can render the system unusable. (Now you need your second Little Backup Box SD card, see above.)<br>
